1.Which of the following is not a primitive data type in Java?
C. String 

2.Which primitive data type is used to store a single 16-bit Unicode character?
C. char 
3.What is the size of the primitive data type long in Java?
B. 8 bytes 
4.Which of the following data types is used to store a value with a floating decimal point?
A. float 
5.Which data type in Java is used to represent true or false values?
A. boolean 
6.What is the default value of a boolean variable in Java?
B. false 
7.Which of the following is the correct syntax to declare a variable of type double in Java?
A. double x = 3.14;
8.Which of the following is not a valid datatype in Java?
D. decimal 
9.What is the size of the int datatype in Java?
B. 2 bytes 

Question 10: 
Which of the following can be used to declare a variable to store a number with a fractional part?
C. double

Question 11: 
What is the default value of a char variable in Java?
C. ' ' 
Question 12: 
Which of the following is the smallest integer data type in Java?
D. byte 

Question 13: 
Which of the following statements is true about the float data type in Java?
A. It is a single-precision 32-bit IEEE 754 floating point.

Question 14: 
Which of the following literals can be assigned to a variable of type byte in Java?
D. 100 

Question 15: 
Which of the following data types can hold a value of 3.14?
C. byte 

Question 16: 
What is the range of values that can be stored in a variable of type short in Java?
A. -128 to 127 

Question 17: 
Which of the following is used to declare a variable that can hold a large integer value?
B. int 

Question 18: 
What will be the output of the following code snippet?
B. 2 

Question 19: 
Which of the following datatypes has the highest precision?
D. long 

Question 20: 
Which of the following is not a keyword in Java?
B. volatile

Question 21: 
Which of the following is the correct way to declare a variable in Java?
B. int x = 10; 

Question 22: 
What is the default value of a local variable in Java?
B. null 

Question 23: 
Which of the following variable names is invalid in Java?
C. 1name 

Question 24: 
Which keyword is used to declare a constant variable in Java?
C. const 

Question 25: 
What will be the output of the following code?
B. 5 

Question 26: 
Which of the following is not a valid way to declare a variable in Java?
C. int z = x + y; 

Question 27: 
What is the correct syntax to declare a variable that can hold a string value?
B. String x = "Hello"; 

Question 28: 
Which of the following statements about variable scope in Java is true?
A. A variable declared inside a method is accessible outside the method. 

Question 29: 
What is the correct way to declare multiple variables of the same type in Java?
C. int x = 1; int y = 2; int z = 3;

Question 30: 
Which of the following is true about instance variables in Java?
D. && 

Question 32: 
What will be the output of the following code?
C. 60 

Question 33: 
Which of the following operators is used for concatenation of strings in Java?
B. + 

Question 34: 
What is the result of the following expression?
A. 15 

Question 35: 
Which of the following is the correct syntax for the ternary operator in Java?
B. condition : expression1 ? expression2;

Question 36: 
What will be the output of the following code?
C. 15 

Question 37: 
Which of the following is not a relational operator in Java?
A. && 

Question 39: 
What will be the output of the following code?
A. 2.5 

Question 40: 
Which of the following operators has the highest precedence in Java?
C. () 

Question 41: 
What is a constructor in Java?
B. A method that returns the type of the class. 

Question 42: 
Which of the following is true about constructors in Java?
D. Constructors cannot have parameters. 

Question 43: 
What will be the output of the following code?
C. No output 

Question 44: 
Which of the following statements is true about default constructors?
B. A default constructor takes parameters. 

Question 45: 
Can constructors be overloaded in Java?
A. Yes 

Question 46: 
Which keyword is used to call one constructor from another in the same class?
A. this 

Question 47: 
What will be the output of the following code?
D. Runtime error

Question 48: 
Which of the following is not a property of a constructor?


Question 49: 
What will be the output of the following code?
A. 0 

Question 50: 
Which of the following is true about the use of super() in constructors?
C. It is used to call the default constructor of the superclass. 

Question 51: 
Which of the following is not a Java control flow statement?
D. repeat 

Question 52: 
What will be the output of the following code?
A. x is greater than 5 

Question 53: 
Which of the following is true about the for loop in Java?
C. It is used to execute a block of code only if a condition is true.

Question 54: 
What is the output of the following code?
A. 0 1 2 3 4 

Question 55: 
Which keyword is used to exit a loop in Java?
B. break 

Question 56: 
What will be the output of the following code?
A. 1 2 

Question 57: 
Which of the following statements is true about the switch statement in Java?
D. It cannot have a default case. 

Question 58: 
What will be the output of the following code?
C. Wednesday 

Question 59: 
Which of the following loops will execute the code block at least once?
A. for loop 

Question 60: 
What will be the output of the following code?
A. 0 1 2 3 

Question 61: 
Which of the following statements is true about classes in Java?
D. A class must be declared as public. 

Question 62: 
Which keyword is used to create an object in Java?
C. new

Question 63: 
What will be the output of the following code?
B. Hello World 

Question 64: 
Which of the following statements is true about objects in Java? 
D. Objects do not have attributes. 

Question 65: 
What will be the output of the following code?
D. Runtime error 

Question 66: 
Which of the following is used to access members of an object in Java?
C. -> 

Question 67: 
What will be the output of the following code?
B. 10 

Question 68: 
Which of the following is not a valid way to create an object in Java?
B. A obj = new A; 

Question 69: 
Which of the following statements is true about instance variables in Java?

C. They are declared inside a class but outside any method. 

Question 70: 
What is the purpose of the this keyword in Java?
A. To refer to the current class. 

Question 71: 
Which keyword is used to inherit a class in Java?
C. extends 

Question 72: 
Which of the following statements is true about inheritance in Java?
A. A class can inherit multiple classes.

Question 73: 
What will be the output of the following code?
A. Class A 

Question 74: 
Which of the following is a type of inheritance not supported in Java?
B. Multiple inheritance through classes

Question 75: 
What is the purpose of the super keyword in Java?
D. Both B and C

Question 76: 
What will be the output of the following code?
D. Compilation error 

Question 77: 
Which of the following is not a benefit of inheritance?
C. Multiple inheritance through classes 

Question 78: 
What will be the output of the following code?
B. 20 

Question 79: 
Which of the following is true about method overriding in Java?
A. The method in the subclass must have the same name as the method in the superclass. 

Question 80: 
Which of the following statements is true about the instanceof operator in Java?
B. It is used to create an instance of a class.

Question 81: 
What is polymorphism in Java?
B. The ability of an object to take on many forms. 

Question 82: 
Which of the following statements is true about method overloading in Java?
A. Method overloading is a form of runtime polymorphism. 

Question 83: 
Which of the following is an example of runtime polymorphism in Java?
C. Method overriding 

Question 84: 
What will be the output of the following code?
A. Class A 

Question 85: 
Which keyword is used to achieve dynamic method dispatch in Java?
D. extends 

Question 86: 
Which of the following statements is true about interfaces in Java? 
A. An interface can have only abstract methods.

Question 88: 
Which of the following statements is true about method overriding in Java?
A. The method in the subclass must have the same return type as the method in the superclass. 

Question 89: 
What will be the output of the following code?
A. Class A 

Question 90: 
Which of the following is a benefit of polymorphism in Java?
C. It enhances the flexibility and extensibility of the code. 

Question 91: 
What is abstraction in Java?
B. The process of creating a class with multiple methods. 

Question 92: 
Which of the following is true about abstract classes in Java?
B. An abstract class can have both abstract and concrete methods.

Question 93: 
What will be the output of the following code?
D. No output 

Question 94: 
Which keyword is used to declare an abstract method in Java?
C. abstract 

Question 95: 
Which of the following statements is true about interfaces in Java?
A. An interface can have instance variables. 

Question 96: 
What will be the output of the following code?
D. No output 

Question 97: 
Which of the following is not allowed in a Java interface?
C. Private methods 

Question 98: 
What is the purpose of the default keyword in a Java interface? 
D. To declare a default class. 

Question 99: 
What will be the output of the following code?
A. Interface A 

Question 100: 
Which of the following statements is true about abstract classes and interfaces in Java?
D. An interface cannot have abstract methods.

Question 101: 
What is encapsulation in Java?
A. The process of hiding the implementation details and showing only functionality. 

Question 102: 
Which of the following concepts promotes encapsulation in Java?
A. Access specifiers (public, private, protected)

Question 103: 
Which access specifier restricts access the most in Java? 
A. public 

Question 104: 
What is the purpose of using private access specifier for variables in Java?
A. To make the variable accessible from any class. 

Question 105: 
Which of the following is a benefit of encapsulation in Java?
B. Enhanced security

Question 106: 
What will be the output of the following code?
D. Runtime error 

Question 107: 
Which of the following statements is true about encapsulation? 
C. Encapsulation helps in achieving data hiding and abstraction. 

Question 108: 
Which of the following is an example of encapsulation in Java?
A. Using private variables and public methods 

Question 109: 
What is the role of getter and setter methods in encapsulation?
A. Getter methods are used to set the value of variables.

Question 110: 
Which of the following is not an advantage of encapsulation?
A. Improved flexibility 

Question 111: 
Which access modifier restricts access the least in Java? 
C. public

Question 112: 
Which of the following is true about the private access modifier in Java?
B. It allows access within the same package. 

Question 113: 
Which access modifier is used when no modifier is specified in Java?
B. protected 

Question 114: 
What is the default access modifier for variables and methods in Java classes? 
C. public 

Question 115: 
Which of the following is true about the protected access modifier in Java?
B. It allows access within the same package.

Question 116: 
What will be the output of the following code?
D. Runtime error 

Question 117: 
Which access modifier is used to restrict access within the same package and subclasses?
B. protected 

Question 118: 
What will be the output of the following code?
C. 10 

Question 119: 
Which access modifier allows a variable or method to be accessed from any class in the Java Virtual 
Machine (JVM)?
B. protected 


Question 120: 
Which of the following is true about the default (package-private) access modifier in Java?
D. It allows access from any class in the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). 

121. What is an array in Java?
B. A data structure that stores elements of different types

122. How do you declare an array in Java?
B. int arr[];

123. What is the length of an array in Java?
A. It is the total number of elements in the array.

124. Which of the following is true about the default values of array elements in Java?
C. They are null for all types. 

125. How can you initialize an array in Java?
C. int[] arr = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}; 

126. How do you access the elements of an array in Java?
C. By using the index of the element enclosed in square brackets ([]).

127. What happens if you try to access an index that is out of the bounds of the array in Java?
C. It throws an ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException. 

128. Which of the following statements is true about multidimensional arrays in Java?
A. All dimensions must be of the same size.

129. How do you find the length of the second dimension of a two-dimensional array arr in Java?
C. arr[2].length; 

130. What is the correct way to pass an array as an argument to a method in Java?
B. void method(int[] arr) { ... }

131. Which of the following is a valid way to declare a string in Java?
A. String str = 'Hello';

132. How do you find the length of a string in Java?
B. str.length() 

133. What is the output of str.substring(1, 3) if str = "Hello"?
B. "el" 

134. Which of the following methods can be used to compare two strings in Java?
C. compare() 

135. What is the result of the following code?
A. true 

136. What is the result of the following code?
A. true 

137. How do you convert a string to uppercase in Java?
C. str.toUpperCase()

138. How do you concatenate two strings in Java?
B. str1.concat(str2) 

139. What does the trim() method do in Java?
B. Removes leading and trailing spaces from the string 

140. Which method is used to find the first occurrence of a character in a string?
C. charAt() 

141. What is the superclass of all exceptions in Java? 
D. RuntimeException 

142. Which of the following is an unchecked exception?
B. SQLException

143. Which keyword is used to handle exceptions in Java?
b.catch

144. What will happen if an exception is not caught in a program?
D. The program will ignore the exception and continue. 

145. Which block can be used to perform cleanup operations after an exception is thrown?
D. finally 

146. What is the correct order of blocks when handling exceptions in Java?
A. try, catch, finally 

147. Which of the following exceptions is thrown when an array is accessed with an illegal index?
C. IndexOutOfBoundsException 

148. Which statement is true about the finally block?
D. It is executed before the catch block.

149. How do you create a custom exception in Java?
D. Implement the Exception interface 

150. Which of the following is true about the throws keyword?
C. It is used to catch an exception. 

151. Which interface must be implemented by a class to create a new thread?
A. Runnable 

152. Which method is used to start a thread execution?
B. start() 

153. Which of the following is not a valid state of a thread?
A. New 

154. What will happen if we directly call the run() method instead of start() on a thread object?
C. It will throw an exception. 

155. Which of the following is used to obtain a lock on an object?
D. notify() method 

156. Which method is used to make a thread wait until another thread completes its execution?
B. notify() 

157. What does the yield() method do?
D. Stops the thread. 

158. Which of the following is true about the sleep() method?
D. It can only be called on synchronized methods. 

159. Which exception is thrown when a thread is waiting, sleeping, or doing some processing, and it is 
interrupted? 
C. ThreadException 

161. Which of the following is not a part of the Java Collections Framework?
B. HashMap 

162. Which interface provides the basic operations for managing a collection of elements?
D. Map 

163. Which class is synchronized in the Java Collections Framework?
B. HashMap 

164. Which method is used to add an element to a specific position in an ArrayList?
D. put() 

165. Which collection class allows you to store key-value pairs and access them by key?
C. Map 

166. What is the default initial capacity of an ArrayList?
B. 10 

167. Which method is used to remove all elements from a collection?
C. removeAll() 

168. Which of the following classes implements the Queue interface?
LinkedList

169. How can you iterate over a HashSet?
B. Using an iterator 

170. What does the peek() method do in a queue?
B. Returns the head of the queue without removing it

171. Which of the following classes is a part of the Java Collections Framework but is not synchronized?
A. HashSet 

172. Which of the following methods is used to obtain the number of elements in a collection?
C. count() 

173. What is the time complexity of the get() method in an ArrayList?
B. O(n) 

174. Which collection class maintains the order of insertion?
A. HashSet 

175. Which of the following classes provides a resizable array and is not synchronized?
B. Vector 

176. Which of the following is a valid declaration of a generic HashMap in Java?
C. HashMap<K, V> map = new HashMap<K, V>(); 

177. Which method is used to check if a collection is empty? 
B. isEmpty() 

178. What is the difference between HashMap and TreeMap? 
B. TreeMap maintains order, HashMap does not 

179. Which interface does EnumSet implement? 
D. Queue 

180. Which method is used to remove a specific element from a HashSet?
D. clear() 

181. Which of the following is a new feature introduced in Java 8?
B. Lambda Expressions 

182. What is the purpose of the default keyword in interfaces in Java 8?
A. To provide a default implementation for a method

183. Which new interface in Java 8 allows us to work with collections in a functional style?
B. Stream 

184. What is the purpose of the Optional class introduced in Java 8?
A. To handle optional arguments in methods 

185. Which method in the Stream interface is used to filter elements based on a given predicate? 
A. filter() 

186. How can you create a Stream from a collection in Java 8?
A. Stream.of(collection) 

187. Which functional interface in Java 8 has a method with no arguments and returns a value?
B. Supplier 

188. What is the return type of the map method in the Stream interface? 
B. Set 

189. Which new date and time API was introduced in Java 8? 
A. java.util.Date 

190. Which annotation can be used to repeat annotations in Java 8?
A. @Repeatable 

191. Which class is used to represent a compiled regular expression in Java? 
C. Regex 

192. Which method in the Pattern class is used to compile a regular expression?
D. regex() 

193. What does the matches() method in the Matcher class do?
B. Returns true if any subsequence of the input sequence matches the pattern 

194. Which of the following regular expression patterns matches any digit? 
A. \d 

195. How do you create a Matcher object from a Pattern?
A. Pattern.createMatcher(CharSequence)


196. Which method in the Matcher class is used to find the next subsequence of the input sequence that 
matches the pattern?
C. lookingAt() 

197. What does the regular expression ^abc match?
C. abc anywhere in the line

198. Which of the following is a greedy quantifier in regular expressions?
C. * 

199. What does the regular expression a{2,4} match?
C. Between two and four a characters


200. Which method is used to replace all occurrences of a pattern in the input sequence with a 
replacement string?
A. replaceAll() 




























































































































































 
